#BEGIN_DRUGCARD DB00582

# AHFS_Codes:
08:14.08

# ATC_Codes:
J02AC03

# Absorption:
The oral bioavailability is estimated to be 96% (CV 13%).

# Biotransformation:
Hepatic. The major metabolite of voriconazole is the N-oxide, which accounts for 72% of the circulating radiolabelled metabolites in plasma. Since this metabolite has minimal antifungal activity, it does not contribute to the overall efficacy of voriconazole.

# Brand_Mixtures:
Not Available

# Brand_Names:
Vfend

# CAS_Registry_Number:
137234-62-9

# ChEBI_ID:
10023

# Chemical_Formula:
C16H14F3N5O

# Chemical_IUPAC_Name:
(2R,3S)-2-(2,4-difluorophenyl)-3-(5-fluoropyrimidin-4-yl)-1-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)butan-2-ol

# Chemical_Structure:
Not Available

# Creation_Date:
2005-06-13 07:24:05 -0600

# DPD_Drug_ID_Number:
2256460

# Description:
Voriconazole (Vfend®, Pfizer) is a triazole antifungal medication used to treat serious fungal infections. It is used to treat invasive fungal infections that are generally seen in patients who are immunocompromised. These include invasive candidiasis, invasive aspergillosis, and emerging fungal infections.

# Dosage_Forms:
Solution	Intravenous
Tablet	Oral

# Drug_Category:
Antifungal Agents
Antifungals

# Drug_Interactions:
Abarelix	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Abiraterone 	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of abiraterone. Monitor concomitant therapy closely.
Alfentanil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of alfentanil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for increased anesthetic and respiratory depressant effects and consider using lower alfentanil doses or alternate anesthetic.
Alfuzosin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of alfuzosin by decreasing its metabolism. Use of alfuzosin with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is contraindicated by the manufacturer.
Almotriptan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of almotriptan by decreasing its metabolism. The initial and maximum doses should not exceed 6.25 mg and 12.5 mg, respectively during concomitant therapy. Concomitant therapy should be avoided in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function.
Alprazolam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of alprazolam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for alprazolam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Amiodarone	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of amiodarone by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of amiodarone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Amitriptyline	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Amlodipine	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of amlodipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of amlodipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Amobarbital	Amobarbital may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole. Concomitant voriconazole and long-acting barbiturates therapy is contraindicated.
Amoxapine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Amprenavir	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of amprenavir by decreasing its metabolism. The serum concentration of voriconazole may be increased by amprenavir. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Apixaban	Avoid combination. Otherwise, voriconazole will likely increase apixaban serum concentration.
Apomorphine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Aprepitant	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of aprepitant by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of aprepitant if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Aripiprazole	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of aripiprazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of aripiprazole if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Arsenic trioxide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Artemether	Additive QTc-prolongation may occur. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Asenapine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Astemizole	Increased risk of cardiotoxicity and arrhythmias
Atazanavir	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of atazanavir by decreasing its metabolism. The serum concentration of voriconazole may be increased by atazanavir. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Atorvastatin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of atorvastatin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of atorvastatin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Benzphetamine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of benzphetamine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of benzphetamine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Bisoprolol	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of bisoprolol by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of bisoprolol if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Bortezomib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of bortezomib by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of bortezomib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Bosentan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of bosentan by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of bosentan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Bromazepam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of bromazepam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of bromazepam if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Bromocriptine	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of bromocriptine likely by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Budesonide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of budesonide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of budesonide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Buprenorphine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of buprenorphine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of buprenorphine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Buspirone	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of buspirone likely by decreasing its metabolism via CYP3A4. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of buspirone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Busulfan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of busulfan by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of busulfan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Butabarbital	Butabarbital may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole. Concomitant voriconazole and long-acting barbiturates therapy is contraindicated.
Butalbital	Butalbital may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole. Concomitant voriconazole and long-acting barbiturates therapy is contraindicated.
Cabazitaxel	Concomitant therapy with a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor may increase concentrations of cabazitaxel. Avoid concomitant therapy.
Cabergoline	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of cabergoline likely by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Calcitriol	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of calcitriol by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of calcitriol if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Capecitabine	Capecitabine, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if capecitabine is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Carbamazepine	Carbamazepine may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism. Concomitant voriconazole and carbamazepine therapy is contraindicated.
Chlordiazepoxide	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of chlordiazepoxide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for chlordiazepoxide toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Chloroquine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of chloroquine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of chloroquine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Chlorpheniramine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of chlorpheniramine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of chlorpheniramine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Chlorpropamide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Ciclesonide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ciclesonide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ciclesonide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Cilostazol	Voriconzole may increase the serum concentration of cilostazol by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for increased therapeutic/adverse effects of cilostazol and consider reducing the dose during concomitant therapy.
Cinacalcet	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of cinacalcet by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of cinacalcet if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Cisapride	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration and toxicity of cisapride likely by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Citalopram	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of citalopram by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of citalopram if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Clarithromycin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of clarithromycin by decreasing its metabolism. Clarithromycin may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation and changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Clobazam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of clobazam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for clobazam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Clomipramine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Clonazepam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of clonazepam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for clonazepam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Clorazepate	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of clorazepate by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for clorazepate toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Cocaine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of cocaine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of cocaine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Colchicine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of colchicine by decreasing its metabolism. A dose reduction of colchicine is recommended along with increased monitoring for colchicine toxicity. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment.
Conivaptan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of conivaptan by inhibiting its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Cyclosporine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of cyclosporine by decreasing its metabolism. Consider reducing the dose of cyclosporine. Monitor cyclosporine serum concentrations and therapeutic and toxic effects if initiating, discontinuing or adjusting voriconazole therapy.
Dantrolene	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of dantrolene by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of dantrolene if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Dapsone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of dapsone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of dapsone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Darifenacin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of darifenacin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of darifenacin  if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Darunavir	Darunavir may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole. This combination should be avoided unless the potential benefits outweigh the risk of reduced voriconazole efficacy.
Dasatinib	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may also increase the serum concentration of dasatinib by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of dasatinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Delavirdine	Delavirdine, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if delavirdine is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Desipramine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Dexamethasone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of dexamethasone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of dexamethasone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Diazepam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of diazepam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for diazepam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Diclofenac	Voriconazole, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of diclofenac by decreasing its metabolism. Renal impairment may increase the risk of diclofenac adverse effects. Monitor for changes in therapeutic and adverse effects of diclofenac if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Didanosine	Didanosine may interfere with the absorption of orally administered voriconazole. Enteric coated didanosine does not exert this effect. Didanosine buffered formulations should be administered at least 2 hours from oral voriconazole administration.
Digitoxin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of digitoxin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of digitoxin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Digoxin	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of digoxin. Monitor for increased serum concentrations and toxic effects of digoxin if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Dihydroergotamine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of dihydroergotamine by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Diltiazem	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of diltiazem by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of diltiazem if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Disopyramide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may also increase the serum concentration of disopyramide by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation and changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of disopyramide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Docetaxel	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of docetaxel by decreasing its metabolism. Consider using a non-interacting antifungal or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of docetaxel if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Dofetilide	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of dofetilide by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Dolasetron	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Doxepin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may also increase the serum concentration of doxepin by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation and changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of doxepin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Doxorubicin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of doxorubicin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of doxorubicin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Dronedarone	Voriconazole is a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor in which concomitant use with dronedarone will significantly increase its exposure. Avoid concomitant use.
Dronedarone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Droperidol	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Efavirenz	Efavirenze may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism. Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of efavirenz by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or adjust doses and monitor for reduced voriconazole efficacy and increased efavirenz adverse effects during concomitant therapy.
Eletriptan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of eletriptan by decreasing its metabolism. Consider avoiding administration of the two agents within 72 hours of each other. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of eletriptan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Eplerenone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of eplerenone by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Ergoloid mesylate	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ergoloid mesylates by decreasing their metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Ergonovine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ergonovine by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Ergotamine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ergotamine by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Erlotinib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of erlotinib by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of erlotinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Erythromycin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of erythromycin by decreasing its metabolism. Erythromycin may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation and changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Escitalopram	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of escitalopram by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of escitalopram if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Estazolam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of estazolam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for estazolam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Eszopiclone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of eszopiclone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of eszopiclone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ethosuximide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ethosuximide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ambrisentan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Etoposide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of etoposide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of etoposide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Etravirine	Etravirine, when used concomitantly with variconazole, may experience an increase in serum concentration due to decreased metabolism of etravirine. 

Voriconazole, when used concomitantly with etravirine (a CYP2C19 inhibitor), may experience a decrease in serum concentration. 

Monitor for changes in efficacy and toxicity of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, modified or discontinued.
Everolimus	Voriconzole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of everolimus by decreasing its metabolism. Concurrent therapy should be avoided.
Felbamate	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of felbamate by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of felbamate if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Felodipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of felodipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of felodipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fentanyl	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of fentanyl by decreasing its metabolism. Adverse effects include life-threatening respiratory depression. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of fentanyl if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Flecainide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Floxuridine	Floxuridine, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if floxuridine is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fluconazole	Fluconazole, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation and changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if fluconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Flunisolide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of flunisolide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of flunisolide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fluorouracil	Fluorouracil, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if fluorouracil is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fluoxetine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Flupenthixol	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Flurazepam	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of flurazepam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for flurazepam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Flurbiprofen	Flurbiprofen, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if flurbiprofen is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Flutamide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of flutamide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of flutamide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fluticasone Propionate	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of fluticasone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of fluticasone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Fosamprenavir	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of fosamprenavir by decreasing its metabolism. Fosamprenavir may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Foscarnet	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Fosphenytoin	The hydantoin decreases the effect of voriconazole
Gatifloxacin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Gefitinib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of gefitinib by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of gefitinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Gemfibrozil	Gemfibrozil, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if gemfibrozil is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Halofantrine	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of halofantrine by decreasing its metabolism by CYP3A4.  Concomitant therapy should be avoided due to the concentration-dependent risk of QTc prolongation related to halofantrine.
Haloperidol	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of haloperidol by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of haloperidol if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ibuprofen	Ibuprofen, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if ibuprofen is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ibutilide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Ifosfamide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ifosfamide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ifosfamide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Imatinib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of imatinib by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of imatinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Imipramine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Indapamide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Indinavir	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of indinavir by decreasing its metabolism. Indinavir may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Indomethacin	Indomethacin, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if indomethacin is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Irinotecan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of irinotecan by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of irinotecan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Isosorbide Dinitrate	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of isosorbide dinitrate by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of isosorbide dinitrate if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Isosorbide Mononitrate	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of isosorbide mononitrate by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of isosorbide mononitrate if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Isradipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of isradipine by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of isradipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ivacaftor	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of ivacaftor. Monitor concomitant therapy closely.
Ixabepilone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ixabepilone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ixabepilone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ketamine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ketamine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ketamine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ketoconazole	Ketoconazole, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if ketoconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Lapatinib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of lapatinib by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of lapatinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Levofloxacin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Lidocaine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of lidocaine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of lidocaine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Lopinavir	Lopinavir may reduce serum concentration and efficacy of voriconazole. This combination should be avoided unless the potential benefits outweigh the risk of reduced voriconazole efficacy.
Lovastatin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of lovastatin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of lovastatin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Loxapine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Lumefantrine	Additive QTc-prolongation may occur. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Maprotiline	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Maraviroc	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of maraviroc by decreasing its metabolism. A dose reduction in maraviroc is warranted. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of maraviroc if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Mefenamic acid	Mefanamic acid, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if mefanamic acid is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Mefloquine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of mefloquine by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of mefloquine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Meloxicam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of meloxicam by decreasing its metabolism via CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of meloxicam if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Mesoridazine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Methadone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of methadone by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of methadone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Methotrimeprazine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Methylergonovine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of methylergonovine  by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Miconazole	Miconazole, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if miconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Midazolam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of midazolam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for midazolam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Mirtazapine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of mirtazapine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of mirtazapine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Modafinil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of modafinil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of modafinil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Moricizine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of moricizine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of moricizine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Moxifloxacin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Nateglinide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nateglinide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of nateglinide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Nefazodone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nefazodone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of nefazodone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Nelfinavir	Nelfinavir may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism. Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of nelfinavir by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or adjust doses and monitor for reduced voriconazole efficacy and increased nelfinavir adverse effects during concomitant therapy.
Nicardipine	Nicardipine, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nicardipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole and nicardipine if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or doses are changed.
Nifedipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nifedipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of nifedipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Nilotinib	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of nilotinib by inhibiting its metabolism by CYP3A4. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Nimodipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nimodipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of nimodipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Nisoldipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nisoldipine by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Nitrendipine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of nitrendipine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of nitrendipine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Norfloxacin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Nortriptyline	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Octreotide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Omeprazole	Voriconazole increases the effect and toxicity of omeprazole
Paclitaxel	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of paclitaxel by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of paclitaxel if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Pentamidine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Perflutren	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Pergolide	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of pergolide likely by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Phencyclidine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of phencyclidine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of phencyclidine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Phenobarbital	Phenobarbital may reduce serum concentrations and efficacy of voriconazole. Concomitant voriconazole and long-acting barbiturates therapy is contraindicated.
Phenytoin	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of phenytoin by decreasing its metabolism. Phenytoin may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by increasing its metabolism. Consider alternate antifungal therapy or monitor for voriconazole therapy failure and phenytoin toxicity.
Pimozide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of pimozide by decreasing its metabolism. Increased risk of QTc prolongation and development arrhythmias. Concomitant use is contraindicated.
Pipotiazine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of pipotiazine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of pipotiazine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Piroxicam	Piroxicam, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if piroxicam is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Ponatinib 	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of ponatinib. Monitor concomitant therapy closely.
Prazepam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of prazepam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for prazepam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Praziquantel	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of praziquantel by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of praziquantel if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Primidone	The barbiturate, primidone, decreases the effect of voriconazole.
Probucol	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Procainamide	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Propafenone	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Protriptyline	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Quetiapine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of quetiapine by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of quetiapine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Quinidine	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of quinidine likely by inhibiting its metabolism by CYP3A4. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the serum concentration and toxic effects of quinidine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Quinine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Ranolazine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ranolazine by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Regorafenib	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of regorafenib.
Repaglinide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of repaglinide by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of repaglinide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Rifabutin	Rifabutin may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism via CYP3A enzymes. Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of rifabutin likely by inhibiting its metabolism via CYP3A. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Rifampin	Rifampin may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism via CYP3A enzymes. Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of rifampin likely by inhibiting its metabolism via CYP3A. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Rifapentine	Rifapentine may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole likely by increasing its metabolism via CYP3A enzymes. Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of rifapentin likely by inhibiting its metabolism via CYP3A. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Risperidone	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Ritonavir	Ritonavir may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole by increasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy with high dose ritonavir is contraindicated. Caution should be used with lower doses as decreased voriconazole efficacy may occur.
Rivaroxaban	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of rivaroxaban by decreasing its metabolism. Increased bleed risks may occur. Consider alternate therapy.
Ruxolitinib	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of ruxolitinib. Consider alternate therapy.
Salmeterol	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor may increase the serum concentration of salmeterol by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy.
Saquinavir	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of saquinavir by decreasing its metabolism. Saquinavir may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Saxagliptin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of saxagliptin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of saxagliptin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sibutramine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of sibutramine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of sibutramine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sildenafil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of sildenafil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of sildenafil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Silodosin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of silodosin by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Simvastatin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of simvastatin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of simvastain if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sirolimus	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of sirolimus likely by inhibition of CYP3A4-mediated metabolism or p-glyprotein transport of sirolimus. Consider alternate therapy or reduce the dose of sirolimus and monitor serum levels during concomitant therapy.
Sitaxentan	Sitaxsentan, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if sitaxsentan is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Solifenacin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of solifenacin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of solifenacin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sotalol	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Sparfloxacin	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Spiramycin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of spiramycin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of spiramycin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
St. John's Wort	St. John's Wort may decrease the serum concentration of voriconazole by increasing its elimination. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Sufentanil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of sufentanil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of sufentanil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sulfisoxazole	Sulfisoxazole, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of voriconazole if sulfisoxazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Sunitinib	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of sunitinib by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of sunitinib if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tacrolimus	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tacrolimus by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tacrolimus if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tadalafil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tadalafil by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy should be avoided if possible due to high risk of tadalafil toxicity.
Tamoxifen	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tamoxifen by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tamoxifen if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tamsulosin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tamsulosin by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tamsulosin if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Telithromycin	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of telithromycin by decreasing its metabolism. Telithromycin may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or dose changed. QTc interval prolongation may also occur.
Temsirolimus	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of temsirolimus and its active metabolite, sirolimus, by decreasing their metabolism. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Teniposide	The strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, Voriconazole, may decrease the metabolism and clearance of Teniposide, a CYP3A4 substrate. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic/adverse effects of Teniposide if Voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Terfenadine	Increased risk of cardiotoxicity and arrhythmias
Tetrabenazine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Theophylline	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of theophylline by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of theophylline if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Thioridazine	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Concomitant use is contraindicated.
Thiothixene	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Tiagabine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tiagabine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tiagabine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tipranavir	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of tipranavir by decreasing its metabolism. Tipranavir may increase the serum concentration of voriconazole. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of both agents if concomitant therapy is initiated, discontinued or if doses are changed.
Tolbutamide	Tolbutamide, a strong CYP2C9 inhibitor, may decrease the metabolism and clearance of Voriconazole. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in Voriconazole therapeutic and adverse effects if Tolbutamide is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tolterodine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tolterodine by decreasing its metabolism. Tolterodine is mainly metabolized via the CYP2D6 pathway. This interaction is likely only a concern in patients who are poor CYP2D6 metabolizers. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tolterodine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Tolvaptan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of Tolvaptan by decreasing its metabolism. Concomitant therapy is contraindicated.
Toremifene	Additive QTc-prolongation may occur, increasing the risk of serious ventricular arrhythmias. Consider alternate therapy. A thorough risk:benefit assessment is required prior to co-administration.
Tramadol	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of tramadol by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of tramadol if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Trazodone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of trazodone by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of trazodone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Triazolam	Voriconazole may increase the serum concentration of triazolam by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for triazolam toxicity if voriconazole is initiated or dose increased.
Trimipramine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of trimipramine by decreasing its metabolism. Additive QTc prolongation may also occur. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of trimipramine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vardenafil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of vardenafil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of vardenafil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vemurafenib	Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase levels of vemurafenib. Monitor concomitant therapy closely.
Venlafaxine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of venlafaxine by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of venlafaxine if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Verapamil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of verapamil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of verapamil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vilazodone	CYP3A4 Inhibitors (Strong) may increase the serum concentration of Vilazodone. imit maximum adult vilazodone dose to 20 mg/day in patients receiving strong CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Vinblastine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may decrease the metabolism of Vinblastine. Consider alternate therapy to avoid Vinblastine toxicity. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic/adverse effects of Vinblastine if Voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vincristine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of Vincristine by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy to avoid Vincristine toxicity. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of Vincristine if Voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vinorelbine	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of Vinorelbine by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy to avoid Vinorelbine toxicity. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of Vinorelbine if Voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Vorinostat	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
Ziprasidone	Additive QTc-prolonging effects may increase the risk of severe arrhythmias. Concomitant therapy should be avoided.
Zolpidem	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of zolpidem by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of zolpidem if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Zonisamide	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of zonisamide by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of zonisamide if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Zopiclone	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of zopiclone by decreasing its metabolism. Consider alternate therapy or monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of zopiclone if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
Zuclopenthixol	Additive QTc prolongation may occur. Consider alternate therapy or use caution and monitor for QTc prolongation as this can lead to Torsade de Pointes (TdP).
ambrisentan	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of ambrisentan by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of ambrisentan if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.
armodafinil	Voriconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, may increase the serum concentration of armodafinil by decreasing its metabolism. Monitor for changes in the therapeutic and adverse effects of armodafinil if voriconazole is initiated, discontinued or dose changed.

# Drug_Reference:
11577374	Ally R, Schurmann D, Kreisel W, Carosi G, Aguirrebengoa K, Dupont B, Hodges M, Troke P, Romero AJ: A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, multicenter trial of voriconazole and fluconazole in the treatment of esophageal candidiasis in immunocompromised patients. Clin Infect Dis. 2001 Nov 1;33(9):1447-54. Epub 2001 Sep 26.
11807146	Walsh TJ, Pappas P, Winston DJ, Lazarus HM, Petersen F, Raffalli J, Yanovich S, Stiff P, Greenberg R, Donowitz G, Schuster M, Reboli A, Wingard J, Arndt C, Reinhardt J, Hadley S, Finberg R, Laverdiere M, Perfect J, Garber G, Fioritoni G, Anaissie E, Lee J: Voriconazole compared with liposomal amphotericin B for empirical antifungal therapy in patients with neutropenia and persistent fever. N Engl J Med. 2002 Jan 24;346(4):225-34.
12167683	Herbrecht R, Denning DW, Patterson TF, Bennett JE, Greene RE, Oestmann JW, Kern WV, Marr KA, Ribaud P, Lortholary O, Sylvester R, Rubin RH, Wingard JR, Stark P, Durand C, Caillot D, Thiel E, Chandrasekar PH, Hodges MR, Schlamm HT, Troke PF, de Pauw B: Voriconazole versus amphotericin B for primary therapy of invasive aspergillosis. N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 8;347(6):408-15.
16231256	Patterson TF, Boucher HW, Herbrecht R, Denning DW, Lortholary O, Ribaud P, Rubin RH, Wingard JR, DePauw B, Schlamm HT, Troke P, Bennett JE: Strategy of following voriconazole versus amphotericin B therapy with other licensed antifungal therapy for primary treatment of invasive aspergillosis: impact of other therapies on outcome. Clin Infect Dis. 2005 Nov 15;41(10):1448-52. Epub 2005 Oct 13.
16243088	Kullberg BJ, Sobel JD, Ruhnke M, Pappas PG, Viscoli C, Rex JH, Cleary JD, Rubinstein E, Church LW, Brown JM, Schlamm HT, Oborska IT, Hilton F, Hodges MR: Voriconazole versus a regimen of amphotericin B followed by fluconazole for candidaemia in non-neutropenic patients: a randomised non-inferiority trial. Lancet. 2005 Oct 22-28;366(9495):1435-42.

# Drug_Type:
Approved
Investigational
Small Molecule

# Experimental_Caco2_Permeability:
Not Available

# Experimental_LogP_Hydrophobicity:
1

# Experimental_Logs:
Not Available

# Experimental_Water_Solubility:
Low

# Food_Interactions:
Not Available

# GenBank_ID:
Not Available

# Generic_Name:
Voriconazole

# HET_ID:
Not Available

# Half_Life:
Not Available

# InChI_Identifier:
InChI=1S/C16H14F3N5O/c1-10(15-14(19)5-20-7-22-15)16(25,6-24-9-21-8-23-24)12-3-2-11(17)4-13(12)18/h2-5,7-10,25H,6H2,1H3/t10-,16+/m0/s1

# InChI_Key:
InChIKey=BCEHBSKCWLPMDN-MGPLVRAMSA-N

# Indication:
For the treatment of esophageal candidiasis, invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, and serious fungal infections caused by <i>Scedosporium apiospermum</i> and <i>Fusarium</i> spp.

# KEGG_Compound_ID:
C07622

# KEGG_Drug_ID:
D00578

# LIMS_Drug_ID:
582

# Mechanism_Of_Action:
Voriconazole binds and inhibits ergosterol synthesis by inhibiting CYP450-dependent 14-alpha sterol demethylase. The inhibition of 14-alpha sterol demethylase results in a depletion of ergosterol in fungal cell membrane.

# Melting_Point:
127-130 °C

# Molecular_Weight_Avg:
349.3105

# Molecular_Weight_Mono:
349.11504471

# Organisms_Affected:
Yeast and other fungi

# PDB_Experimental_ID:
Not Available

# PDB_Homology_ID:
Not Available

# PDRhealth_Link:
Not Available

# Pathways:
Not Available

# PharmGKB_ID:
PA10233

# Pharmacology:
Voriconazole is a triazole antifungal agent indicated for use in the treatment of fungal infections including invasive aspergillosis, esophageal candidiasis, and serious fungal infections caused by <i>Scedosporium apiospermum</i> (asexual form of <i>Pseudallescheria boydii</i>) and <i>Fusarium</i> spp. including <i>Fusarium solani</i>. Fungal plasma membranes are similar to mammalian plasma membranes, differing in having the nonpolar sterol ergosterol, rather than cholesterol, as the principal sterol. Membrane sterols such as ergosterol provide structure, modulation of membrane fluidity, and possibly control of some physiologic events. Voriconazole effects the formation of the fungal plasma membrane by indirectly inhibiting the biosynthesis of ergosterol. This results in plasma membrane permeability changes and inhibition of growth.

# Predicted_LogP_Hydrophobicity:
1.65

# Predicted_LogS:
-3.5

# Predicted_Water_Solubility:
9.78e-02 g/l

# Primary_Accession_No:
DB00582

# Protein_Binding:
58%

# PubChem_Compound_ID:
71616

# PubChem_Substance_ID:
46506421

# RxList_Link:
http://www.rxlist.com/cgi/generic/vfend.htm

# Salts:
Not Available

# Secondary_Accession_No:
APRD00543

# Smiles_String_canonical:
Not Available

# Smiles_String_isomeric:
C[C@@H](C1=NC=NC=C1F)[C@](O)(CN1C=NC=N1)C1=C(F)C=C(F)C=C1

# State:
solid

# Structure:
1

# SwissProt_ID:
Not Available

# SwissProt_Name:
Not Available

# Synonyms:
VCZ

# Synthesis_Reference:
Not Available

# Toxicity:
The minimum lethal oral dose in mice and rats was 300 mg/kg (equivalent to 4 and 7 times the recommended maintenance dose (RMD), based on body surface area). At this dose, clinical signs observed in both mice and rats included salivation, mydriasis, titubation (loss of balance while moving), depressed behavior, prostration, partially closed eyes, and dyspnea. Other signs in mice were convulsions, corneal opacification and swollen abdomen.

# Update_Date:
2013-02-08 16:19:28 -0700

# Wikipedia_Link:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voriconazole

# pKa_Isoelectric_Point:
Not Available

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_1_Gene_Name:
PTGS1

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_1_ID:
20

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_1_Name:
Prostaglandin G/H synthase 1

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_1_Protein_Sequence:
>Prostaglandin G/H synthase 1 precursor
MSRSLLLRFLLFLLLLPPLPVLLADPGAPTPVNPCCYYPCQHQGICVRFGLDRYQCDCTR
TGYSGPNCTIPGLWTWLRNSLRPSPSFTHFLLTHGRWFWEFVNATFIREMLMRLVLTVRS
NLIPSPPTYNSAHDYISWESFSNVSYYTRILPSVPKDCPTPMGTKGKKQLPDAQLLARRF
LLRRKFIPDPQGTNLMFAFFAQHFTHQFFKTSGKMGPGFTKALGHGVDLGHIYGDNLERQ
YQLRLFKDGKLKYQVLDGEMYPPSVEEAPVLMHYPRGIPPQSQMAVGQEVFGLLPGLMLY
ATLWLREHNRVCDLLKAEHPTWGDEQLFQTTRLILIGETIKIVIEEYVQQLSGYFLQLKF
DPELLFGVQFQYRNRIAMEFNHLYHWHPLMPDSFKVGSQEYSYEQFLFNTSMLVDYGVEA
LVDAFSRQIAGRIGGGRNMDHHILHVAVDVIRESREMRLQPFNEYRKRFGMKPYTSFQEL
VGEKEMAAELEELYGDIDALEFYPGLLLEKCHPNSIFGESMIEIGAPFSLKGLLGNPICS
PEYWKPSTFGGEVGFNIVKTATLKKLVCLNTKTCPYVSFRVPDASQDDGPAVERPSTEL

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_1_SwissProt_ID:
P23219

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_2_Gene_Name:
CYP3A5

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_2_ID:
4118

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_2_Name:
Cytochrome P450 3A5

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_2_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 3A5
MDLIPNLAVETWLLLAVSLVLLYLYGTRTHGLFKRLGIPGPTPLPLLGNVLSYRQGLWKF
DTECYKKYGKMWGTYEGQLPVLAITDPDVIRTVLVKECYSVFTNRRSLGPVGFMKSAISL
AEDEEWKRIRSLLSPTFTSGKLKEMFPIIAQYGDVLVRNLRREAEKGKPVTLKDIFGAYS
MDVITGTSFGVNIDSLNNPQDPFVESTKKFLKFGFLDPLFLSIILFPFLTPVFEALNVSL
FPKDTINFLSKSVNRMKKSRLNDKQKHRLDFLQLMIDSQNSKETESHKALSDLELAAQSI
IFIFAGYETTSSVLSFTLYELATHPDVQQKLQKEIDAVLPNKAPPTYDAVVQMEYLDMVV
NETLRLFPVAIRLERTCKKDVEINGVFIPKGSMVVIPTYALHHDPKYWTEPEEFRPERFS
KKKDSIDPYIYTPFGTGPRNCIGMRFALMNMKLALIRVLQNFSFKPCKETQIPLKLDTQG
LLQPEKPIVLKVDSRDGTLSGE

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_2_SwissProt_ID:
P20815

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_3_Gene_Name:
CYP3A4

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_3_ID:
4512

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_3_Name:
Cytochrome P450 3A4

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_3_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 3A4
MALIPDLAMETWLLLAVSLVLLYLYGTHSHGLFKKLGIPGPTPLPFLGNILSYHKGFCMF
DMECHKKYGKVWGFYDGQQPVLAITDPDMIKTVLVKECYSVFTNRRPFGPVGFMKSAISI
AEDEEWKRLRSLLSPTFTSGKLKEMVPIIAQYGDVLVRNLRREAETGKPVTLKDVFGAYS
MDVITSTSFGVNIDSLNNPQDPFVENTKKLLRFDFLDPFFLSITVFPFLIPILEVLNICV
FPREVTNFLRKSVKRMKESRLEDTQKHRVDFLQLMIDSQNSKETESHKALSDLELVAQSI
IFIFAGYETTSSVLSFIMYELATHPDVQQKLQEEIDAVLPNKAPPTYDTVLQMEYLDMVV
NETLRLFPIAMRLERVCKKDVEINGMFIPKGVVVMIPSYALHRDPKYWTEPEKFLPERFS
KKNKDNIDPYIYTPFGSGPRNCIGMRFALMNMKLALIRVLQNFSFKPCKETQIPLKLSLG
GLLQPEKPVVLKVESRDGTVSGA

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_3_SwissProt_ID:
P08684

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_4_Gene_Name:
CYP2C9

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_4_ID:
4757

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_4_Name:
Cytochrome P450 2C9

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_4_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 2C9
MDSLVVLVLCLSCLLLLSLWRQSSGRGKLPPGPTPLPVIGNILQIGIKDISKSLTNLSKV
YGPVFTLYFGLKPIVVLHGYEAVKEALIDLGEEFSGRGIFPLAERANRGFGIVFSNGKKW
KEIRRFSLMTLRNFGMGKRSIEDRVQEEARCLVEELRKTKASPCDPTFILGCAPCNVICS
IIFHKRFDYKDQQFLNLMEKLNENIKILSSPWIQICNNFSPIIDYFPGTHNKLLKNVAFM
KSYILEKVKEHQESMDMNNPQDFIDCFLMKMEKEKHNQPSEFTIESLENTAVDLFGAGTE
TTSTTLRYALLLLLKHPEVTAKVQEEIERVIGRNRSPCMQDRSHMPYTDAVVHEVQRYID
LLPTSLPHAVTCDIKFRNYLIPKGTTILISLTSVLHDNKEFPNPEMFDPHHFLDEGGNFK
KSKYFMPFSAGKRICVGEALAGMELFLFLTSILQNFNLKSLVDPKNLDTTPVVNGFASVP
PFYQLCFIPV

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_4_SwissProt_ID:
P11712

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_5_Gene_Name:
CYP2C19

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_5_ID:
6016

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_5_Name:
Cytochrome P450 2C19

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_5_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 2C19
MDPFVVLVLCLSCLLLLSIWRQSSGRGKLPPGPTPLPVIGNILQIDIKDVSKSLTNLSKI
YGPVFTLYFGLERMVVLHGYEVVKEALIDLGEEFSGRGHFPLAERANRGFGIVFSNGKRW
KEIRRFSLMTLRNFGMGKRSIEDRVQEEARCLVEELRKTKASPCDPTFILGCAPCNVICS
IIFQKRFDYKDQQFLNLMEKLNENIRIVSTPWIQICNNFPTIIDYFPGTHNKLLKNLAFM
ESDILEKVKEHQESMDINNPRDFIDCFLIKMEKEKQNQQSEFTIENLVITAADLLGAGTE
TTSTTLRYALLLLLKHPEVTAKVQEEIERVVGRNRSPCMQDRGHMPYTDAVVHEVQRYID
LIPTSLPHAVTCDVKFRNYLIPKGTTILTSLTSVLHDNKEFPNPEMFDPRHFLDEGGNFK
KSNYFMPFSAGKRICVGEGLARMELFLFLTFILQNFNLKSLIDPKDLDTTPVVNGFASVP
PFYQLCFIPV

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_5_SwissProt_ID:
P33261

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_6_Gene_Name:
FMO3

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_6_ID:
6101

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_6_Name:
Dimethylaniline monooxygenase [N-oxide-forming] 3

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_6_Protein_Sequence:
>Dimethylaniline monooxygenase [N-oxide-forming] 3
MGKKVAIIGAGVSGLASIRSCLEEGLEPTCFEKSNDIGGLWKFSDHAEEGRASIYKSVFS
NSSKEMMCFPDFPFPDDFPNFMHNSKIQEYIIAFAKEKNLLKYIQFKTFVSSVNKHPDFA
TTGQWDVTTERDGKKESAVFDAVMVCSGHHVYPNLPKESFPGLNHFKGKCFHSRDYKEPG
VFNGKRVLVVGLGNSGCDIATELSRTAEQVMISSRSGSWVMSRVWDNGYPWDMLLVTRFG
TFLKNNLPTAISDWLYVKQMNARFKHENYGLMPLNGVLRKEPVFNDELPASILCGIVSVK
PNVKEFTETSAIFEDGTIFEGIDCVIFATGYSFAYPFLDESIIKSRNNEIILFKGVFPPL
LEKSTIAVIGFVQSLGAAIPTVDLQSRWAAQVIKGTCTLPSMEDMMNDINEKMEKKRKWF
GKSETIQTDYIVYMDELSSFIGAKPNIPWLFLTDPKLAMEVYFGPCSPYQFRLVGPGQWP
GARNAILTQWDRSLKPMQTRVVGRLQKPCFFFHWLKLFAIPILLIAVFLVLT

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_6_SwissProt_ID:
P31513

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_7_Gene_Name:
FMO1

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_7_ID:
6104

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_7_Name:
Dimethylaniline monooxygenase [N-oxide-forming] 1

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_7_Protein_Sequence:
>Dimethylaniline monooxygenase [N-oxide-forming] 1
MAKRVAIVGAGVSGLASIKCCLEEGLEPTCFERSDDLGGLWRFTEHVEEGRASLYKSVVS
NSCKEMSCYSDFPFPEDYPNYVPNSQFLEYLKMYANHFDLLKHIQFKTKVCSVTKCSDSA
VSGQWEVVTMHEEKQESAIFDAVMVCTGFLTNPYLPLDSFPGINAFKGQYFHSRQYKHPD
IFKDKRVLVIGMGNSGTDIAVEASHLAEKVFLSTTGGGWVISRIFDSGYPWDMVFMTRFQ
NMLRNSLPTPIVTWLMERKINNWLNHANYGLIPEDRTQLKEFVLNDELPGRIITGKVFIR
PSIKEVKENSVIFNNTSKEEPIDIIVFATGYTFAFPFLDESVVKVEDGQASLYKYIFPAH
LQKPTLAIIGLIKPLGSMIPTGETQARWAVRVLKGVNKLPPPSVMIEEINARKENKPSWF
GLCYCKALQSDYITYIDELLTYINAKPNLFSMLLTDPHLALTVFFGPCSPYQFRLTGPGK
WEGARNAIMTQWDRTFKVIKARVVQESPSPFESFLKVFSFLALLVAIFLIFL

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_7_SwissProt_ID:
Q01740

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_8_Gene_Name:
CYP3A7

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_8_ID:
6107

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_8_Name:
Cytochrome P450 3A7

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_8_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 3A7
MDLIPNLAVETWLLLAVSLILLYLYGTRTHGLFKKLGIPGPTPLPFLGNALSFRKGYWTF
DMECYKKYRKVWGIYDCQQPMLAITDPDMIKTVLVKECYSVFTNRRPFGPVGFMKNAISI
AEDEEWKRIRSLLSPTFTSGKLKEMVPIIAQYGDVLVRNLRREAETGKPVTLKHVFGAYS
MDVITSTSFGVSIDSLNNPQDPFVENTKKLLRFNPLDPFVLSIKVFPFLTPILEALNITV
FPRKVISFLTKSVKQIKEGRLKETQKHRVDFLQLMIDSQNSKDSETHKALSDLELMAQSI
IFIFAGYETTSSVLSFIIYELATHPDVQQKVQKEIDTVLPNKAPPTYDTVLQLEYLDMVV
NETLRLFPVAMRLERVCKKDVEINGMFIPKGVVVMIPSYVLHHDPKYWREPEKFLPERFS
KKNKDNIDPYIYTPFGSGPRNCIGMRFALVNMKLALVRVLQNFSFKPCKETQIPLKLRFG
GLLLTEKPIVLKAESRDETVSGA

# Phase_1_Metabolizing_Enzyme_8_SwissProt_ID:
P24462

# Drug_Target_1_Cellular_Location:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Chromosome_Location:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Drug_References:
10592235	Berman HM, Westbrook J, Feng Z, Gilliland G, Bhat TN, Weissig H, Shindyalov IN, Bourne PE: The Protein Data Bank. Nucleic Acids Res. 2000 Jan 1;28(1):235-42.
12606318	Morales IJ, Vohra PK, Puri V, Kottom TJ, Limper AH, Thomas CF Jr: Characterization of a lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase from Pneumocystis carinii. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2003 Aug;29(2):232-8. Epub 2003 Feb 26.
14657086	Li X, Brown N, Chau AS, Lopez-Ribot JL, Ruesga MT, Quindos G, Mendrick CA, Hare RS, Loebenberg D, DiDomenico B, McNicholas PM: Changes in susceptibility to posaconazole in clinical isolates of Candida albicans. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2004 Jan;53(1):74-80. Epub 2003 Dec 4.
15673750	Sanguinetti M, Posteraro B, Fiori B, Ranno S, Torelli R, Fadda G: Mechanisms of azole resistance in clinical isolates of Candida glabrata collected during a hospital survey of antifungal resistance. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2005 Feb;49(2):668-79.
17016423	Imming P, Sinning C, Meyer A: Drugs, their targets and the nature and number of drug targets. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2006 Oct;5(10):821-34.
17139284	Overington JP, Al-Lazikani B, Hopkins AL: How many drug targets are there? Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2006 Dec;5(12):993-6.
19947892	Thompson GR 3rd, Lewis JS 2nd: Pharmacology and clinical use of voriconazole. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2010 Jan;6(1):83-94.
20362444	Xu Y, Sheng C, Wang W, Che X, Cao Y, Dong G, Wang S, Ji H, Miao Z, Yao J, Zhang W: Structure-based rational design, synthesis and antifungal activity of oxime-containing azole derivatives. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2010 May 1;20(9):2942-5. Epub 2010 Mar 7.
21420761	Xu J, Cao Y, Zhang J, Yu S, Zou Y, Chai X, Wu Q, Zhang D, Jiang Y, Sun Q: Design, synthesis and antifungal activities of novel 1,2,4-triazole derivatives. Eur J Med Chem. 2011 Jul;46(7):3142-8. Epub 2011 Feb 24.

# Drug_Target_1_Essentiality:
Non-Essential

# Drug_Target_1_GenAtlas_ID:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_GenBank_ID_Gene:
X13296

# Drug_Target_1_GenBank_ID_Protein:
578119

# Drug_Target_1_GeneCard_ID:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Gene_Name:
ERG11

# Drug_Target_1_Gene_Sequence:
>1587 bp
ATGGCTATTGTTGAAACTGTCATTGATGGCATTAATTATTTTTTGTCCCTTAGTGTTACA
CAACAGATCAGTATATTATTAGGGGTTCCATTTGTTTACAACTTAGTATGGCAATATTTA
TATTCATTAAGAAAAGATAGAGCTCCATTAGTGTTTTATTGGATTCCTTGGTTTGGTTCT
GCAGCTTCATATGGTCAACAACCTTATGAATTTTTCGAATCATGTCGTCAAAAGTATGGT
GATGTATTTTCATTTATGTTATTAGGGAAAATTATGACGGTTTATTTAGGTCCAAAAGGT
CATGAATTTGTTTTTAATGCTAAATTATCTGATGTTTCTGCTGAAGATGCTTATAAACAT
TTAACTACTCCAGTTTTCGGTAAAGGGGTTATTTATGATTGTCCAAATTCCAGATTAATG
GAACAAAAAAAATTTGCTAAATTTGCTTTGACTACTGATTCATTTAAAAGATATGTTCCT
AAGATTAGAGAAGAAATTTTGAATTATTTTGTTACTGATGAAAGTTTCAAATTGAAAGAA
AAAACTCATGGGGTTGCCAATGTTATGAAAACTCAACCAGAAATTACTATTTTCACTGCT
TCAAGATCTTTATTTGGTGATGAAATGAGAAGAATTTTTGACCGTTCATTTGCTCAACTA
TATTCTGATTTAGATAAAGGTTTTACCCCTATTAATTTTGTTTTCCCTAATTTACCTTTA
CCTCATTATTGGAGACGTGATGCTGCTCAAAAGAAAATCTCTGCTACTTATATGAAAGAA
ATTAAACTGAGAAGAGAACGTGGTGATATTGATCCAAATCGTGATTTAATTGATTCCTTA
TTGATTCATTCAACTTATAAAGATGGTGTGAAAATGACTGATCAAGAAATTGCTAATCTT
TTAATTGGTATTCTTATGGGTGGTCAACATACTTCTGCTTCTACTTCTGCTTGGTTCTTG
TTACATTTAGGTGAAAAACCTCATTTACAAGATGTTATTTATCAAGAAGTTGTTGAATTA
TTGAAAGAAAAAGGTGGTGATTTGAATGATTTGACTTATGAAGATTTACAAAAATTACCA
TCAGTCAATAACACTATTAAGGAAACTCTCAGAATGCATATGCCATTACATTCTATTTTT
AGAAAAGTTACTAACCCATTAAGAATCCCTGAAACCAATTATATTGTTCCAAAAGGTCAT
TATGTTTTAGTTTCTCCAGGTTATGCTCATACTAGTGAAAGATATTTTGATAACCCTGAA
GATTTTGATCCAACTAGATGGGATACTGCTGCTGCCAAAGCTAATTCTGTTTCATTTAAC
TCTTCTGATGAAGTTGATTATGGGTTTGGGAAAGTTTCTAAAGGGGTTTCTTCACCTTAT
TTACCATTTGGTGGTGGTAGACATAGATGTATTGGGGAACAATTTGCTTATGTTCAATTA
GGAACCATTTTAACTACTTTTGTTTATAATTTAAGATGGACTATTGATGGTTATAAAGTG
CCTGACCCTGATTATAGTTCAATGGTGGTTTTACCTACTGAACCAGCAGAAATCATTTGG
GAAAAAAGAGAAACTTGTATGTTTTAA

# Drug_Target_1_General_Function:
Secondary metabolites biosynthesis, transport and catabolism

# Drug_Target_1_General_References:
2644625	Lai MH, Kirsch DR: Nucleotide sequence of cytochrome P450 L1A1 (lanosterol 14 alpha-demethylase) from Candida albicans. Nucleic Acids Res. 1989 Jan 25;17(2):804.
7819160	Boscott PE, Grant GH: Modeling cytochrome P450 14 alpha demethylase (Candida albicans) from P450cam. J Mol Graph. 1994 Sep;12(3):185-92, 195.
9210671	White TC: The presence of an R467K amino acid substitution and loss of allelic variation correlate with an azole-resistant lanosterol 14alpha demethylase in Candida albicans. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1997 Jul;41(7):1488-94.
9228762	Loffler J, Kelly SL, Hebart H, Schumacher U, Lass-Florl C, Einsele H: Molecular analysis of cyp51 from fluconazole-resistant Candida albicans strains. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 1997 Jun 15;151(2):263-8.

# Drug_Target_1_HGNC_ID:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_HPRD_ID:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_ID:
260

# Drug_Target_1_Locus:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Molecular_Weight:
60676

# Drug_Target_1_Name:
Cytochrome P450 51

# Drug_Target_1_Number_of_Residues:
528

# Drug_Target_1_PDB_ID:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Pathway:
Not Available

# Drug_Target_1_Pfam_Domain_Function:
PF00067	p450

# Drug_Target_1_Protein_Sequence:
>Cytochrome P450 51
MAIVETVIDGINYFLSLSVTQQISILLGVPFVYNLVWQYLYSLRKDRAPLVFYWIPWFGS
AASYGQQPYEFFESCRQKYGDVFSFMLLGKIMTVYLGPKGHEFVFNAKLSDVSAEDAYKH
LTTPVFGKGVIYDCPNSRLMEQKKFAKFALTTDSFKRYVPKIREEILNYFVTDESFKLKE
KTHGVANVMKTQPEITIFTASRSLFGDEMRRIFDRSFAQLYSDLDKGFTPINFVFPNLPL
PHYWRRDAAQKKISATYMKEIKSRRERGDIDPNRDLIDSLLIHSTYKDGVKMTDQEIANL
LIGILMGGQHTSASTSAWFLLHLGEKPHLQDVIYQEVVELLKEKGGDLNDLTYEDLQKLP
SVNNTIKETLRMHMPLHSIFRKVTNPLRIPETNYIVPKGHYVLVSPGYAHTSERYFDNPE
DFDPTRWDTAAAKANSVSFNSSDEVDYGFGKVSKGVSSPYLPFGGGRHRCIGEQFAYVQL
GTILTTFVYNLRWTIDGYKVPDPDYSSMVVLPTEPAEIIWEKRETCMF

# Drug_Target_1_Reaction:
obtusifoliol + 3 O2 + 3 NADPH + 3 H+ = 4alpha-methyl-5alpha-ergosta-8,14,24(28)-trien-3beta-ol + formate + 3 NADP+ + 4 H2O

# Drug_Target_1_Signals:
None

# Drug_Target_1_Specific_Function:
Catalyzes C14-demethylation of lanosterol which is critical for ergosterol biosynthesis. It transforms lanosterol into 4,4'-dimethyl cholesta-8,14,24-triene-3-beta-ol

# Drug_Target_1_SwissProt_ID:
P10613

# Drug_Target_1_SwissProt_Name:
CP51_CANAL

# Drug_Target_1_Synonyms:
CYPLI
EC 1.14.13.70
Lanosterol 14-alpha demethylase
P450-14DM
P450-LIA1
Sterol 14- alpha demethylase

# Drug_Target_1_Theoretical_pI:
7.19

# Drug_Target_1_Transmembrane_Regions:
15-37; 50-69

#END_DRUGCARD DB00582
